All right let's look at another clustering algorithm.
This time is called K Means clustering how K Means clustering works as a analyze and finds patterns
or clusters within data.
It's based on distance measure.
If you go through with this psychic line documentation is classed as data by trying to separate samples
in groups of equal variance minimizing criteria known as the inertia or within clusters some of squares.
It does require you to specify the number of clusters.
The good thing about it it does a scale really well.
How does this actually work.
It divides a set of samples into disjoint clusters.
Now each described by the means of the samples in the clusters the means are what we call centroid it's
not that central is are not points from although they live in the same space.
So that part's important is just to mean the middle of the score are class of points but it's not a
point on its own came in the algorithm aims to choose centroid that minimize the inertia or within cluster
sum of squared criterion.
Hence the name k means you have to specify the number of k then and actually calculate the mean.
Let's go through these step by step we import from land cluster k means we specify nine classes and
fit the data and perform the prediction and plot it and just visualize that you will notice that it
one it's stated one two three four five six seven eight nine clusters here and of course when you look
at it this way.
Well some of these clusters are really close to each other.
So 9 might not be the right numbers.
You can also plot using the MLA extend which is the library that a while the package I mentioned earlier
to see how does it actually divide the nine circle clusters.
And you can easily visualize from this of course there are some challenges the global Optima result
may not be achieved the number of clusters must be specified beforehand nobody knows how many clusters
the R's or to force you to have to specify beforehand makes it rather a difficult challenge.
It is also limited to linear Custer boundaries and it can be quite slow for large number of samples
so these are the challenges.
So how do we actually choose the number of clusters and this is where we actually make use of what's
called the elbow method it use intrinsic metrics an example is the within cluster sums or squares error
and cyclone has already provided through K Means which is after you've fitted it and the inertia.
So I say compute this he'll give you the number.
So what we can do is that we can loop through the number of classes one cluster two clusters three.
Basically we specifying the K K is to one case go to two keys to three all the way to case 2 8 and then
we can actually save keep a copy of all of the inertia and look at okay if we specify case Group 1 What
is the inertia case go to 2 What is the inertia then I'll explain to you how do you actually pick the
number of optimal classes.
So if you look at this how would you pick the way the L method works where you see the kink All right
see that you notice the sharp drop and then a plateau.
So they are essentially what this is actually saying based on the Elbow Method one play is that you
can easily choose D or call K with three that's actually a natural choice.
Second one is for the third one is five before it becomes fairly flat after that.
So one two three four or five of course you can actually inspect it further we know the answer to this
it is five.
But nevertheless when you look at this again Zaman is down answer for three possibly okay maybe there's
definitely one on his own this is potentially you can argue for one on it's on here and these two could
be one could also argue there's four one two three four or five as we can see here right.
So that's really the Elbow Method plotted.
And then look for where the kink basically the edge of your elbow another method is what we call silhouette
analysis using a mathematical formula.
How do you actually make use of this.
The value of the silhouette range between minus 1 to 1 cause the 1 indicates that the data point is
very similar to other data points in the class 2 Okay if it's close to minus 1 indicates a data point
it's not similar to the data points in its cluster.
So let's import the matrix closely with score and then we look through once again range ranges this
time wrong from 2 to aid you can see basically use the silhouette score and calculate the difference
between X and the label with itself and finally plot that now how do you interpret this or make choices
based on low analysis.
This portion here this pic before it drops is at the 4 or 5.
So essentially that's how you actually pick using the so-called fluid analysis method.
The third and last method is called the mean shift.
This will actually identify the so core number of clusters and recommend the number of classes for you
those that we talked about beforehand.
Be the silhouette be the have a mind meld don't be at the elbow method or the silhouette analysis you
actually have to perform that decision yourself whereas for men shift it is non parametric you will
identify it for you.
All right.
So let's do this okay.
Couple things we need to do.
We do need to import mischief then we have to estimate and estimate bandwidth.
We also need the import cycle so to do this we perform the instantiation okay of the estimate bandwidth
and then we also instantiate the mean shift.
Okay.
And the followed by looking at the cluster centres and then printed or all
okay.
So this is what's specified as the centers of the cluster the x and y axis of them.
What we can do follow this is that we can print a number of clusters in input data.
It recommends 5.
We can actually visualize this and see that one two three four five is what's recommended by the mean
shift algorithm.
How does it work.
It identify a central location by these following so core.
You can call it algorithm but let me just walk through that with you.
So for each data point it identifies a window around it then it's followed by calculating centroid and
then it update the central location.
It continue to update this window as meaning expanding it and it keeps shifting the centroid the means
towards the peak of each clusters so it's shifted the live computer values shift to the right it computes
a value so it lends to actually identify where the mean is.
So this is what you call by mean shifting and to identify where the center is.
So we'll keep doing this until the centroid no longer moved at all.
A pretty neat algorithm at that and it seems to be able to identify this really well with five centers.
It doesn't always work that way although I did for this case the centers are really distinctive so it
actually picked it up very well and sometimes it fails.
Not all three methods worked.
So sometimes you have to use all three just to easily use one to confirm the other one is correct.
That gives you some confidence as well.
But that I'm going to stop here.
Thank you once again for watching this lesson on clustering and the three different methods of identifying
the center.
The three are the Elbow Method the silhouette and analysis and also the mean shift.
Thank you once again for watching.